
# Monthly update for Sept 2018

## Note:
This is the first month of being open source. There was hardly any code before that. The database architecture was setup to best represent and accomodate all transactions. The choice was made to represent data the way a software engineer would do it instead of the way an account would do it. This is because, I have found the accountant's way to representing transaction as credit/debit and double entry to be super confusing. My personal opinion is that the information to be captured is pretty simple and straight forward. The double entry system is designed for an era where paper was the medium of recording accounts. Also given that software can be written to monitor errors double entry as an account balancing validation also does not make sense. 

So if an event occurs, it is recorded at one place. To give you an example, if you moved money from one account to another(both accounts belonging to you), then there is one entry made in the transaction table specifying that money moved from one account to another. In conventional accounting practices, this information would be entered at 2 places(one entry each for each book of account)

I anticipate some database architecture change as I understand accounting better. 

<b>Choice of open source license:</b><br>
I spend a ton of time understanding open source licenses. Every day I kept oscillating between making it GNU license like wordpress or ERPNext and MIT/Apache2.0 like gitlab. After many days going back and forth, finally I decided to go with a more permissive license - Apache2.0.

This means, you can do literally do what ever you want to do with this. You can use it for commercial purpose, you can customize it and chose to not share it publically. You are free to do what ever you please. Read the license to learn more. 


<b>Approach to product development:</b><br>
I am trying a different approach to product developement. Instead of thinking of the product as an unfinished project, I intent the product to be a finished product at all times. 

Hows that possible? It possible because it is not a finished product for everyone. In the early days, it is a finished product just for me. This means the product needs barely any features. I can make changes from the database directly if something is wrong - no UI required for editing. The basic thing that I wanted was the ablity to automate as much grunt work as possible. This meant email filters for ICICI bank and ICICI credit card. Additionaly I wanted to visualize some of the accounts. 

Once it worked for(it is a finished product for me), I showed it to my sister. I chose my sister because she uses the same bank as me. So I dont have to write filters for other banks. But instead I had to build a ton of UI for editing snapshots/accounts/categories because otherwise the product is not finished for her. As of this month, cashflowy is a finised product for 2 users. 

Even as of now, you will not be able to onboard into the product by yourself. I will manually need to setup things for you. This is inefficient for sure. But these are not part of the product. If you really want to try the product as of now, you will need to speak to me. 

This product will work for you if you have an ICICI bank/credit card. If you want to try it out, reach out to me (alexjv89 at gmail). 

This month the plan is to make the product a finished product for 3 non-ICICI users. I have a couple of people lined up. Until next time.  



Sincerely,<br>
Alex

## Major changes made 
- Ability to manually create transactions
- Ability to update description and category of a transaction
- Filters for ICICI bank and ICICI credit cards - auto create transactions from email
- Edit UI for categories/accounts/snapshots etc
- Ability to edit other details of a manual transaction
- Apache 2.0 choosen as the open source license for cashflowy
- Auto create account snapshots from ICICI credit card transactions
- Kue used as an internal queue to balance processing load. 
- Setcronjob makes sure that new transactions are identified every 10 minutes
